Hey!

My greatest motivation for gaining a Udacity scholarship is based on my current financial situation. That is, I recently left my Self-Driving Car Engineer job at Volvo Cars to become a self-employed free-lancer, or what is called a digital nomad in certain circles. Currently, I am on my way to Bali to meet up with friends who recently made a similar decision in their life and to fight the challenges and difficulties of such a life-style with our joint force.

Even though the scholarship as it is has no significant effect on my determination, having it granted would allow me to concentrate my focus solely on my studies. It would liberate me from the burden to look for a job and work 20 or 30 hours per week during the study period.

As for the field of the nanodegree, artificial intelligence showed up several times in different forms in my life. The first time I met this subject was during my Master's years at Chalmers, Sweden, in a project course. The aim of this course was to build an application for text-classification using three different types of algorithms; such as SVM, Naive Bayes and Perceptron. The implementation of two of these algorithms was included in the project and was made in Haskell. Yesss, my other great passion is functional programming. But it is less important now. The second time I met machine learning and artificial intelligence was at my work at Volvo Cars in the DriveMe project's Active Safety team. There I had the chance to try and experiment with the methods and algorithms that I learned earlier at Chalmers.

Given my diverse background, Bachelor degree in Electrical Engineering with a specialization in Embedded System, a Master in Computer Science and work experience in the field of autonomous driving, my interest in artificial intelligence became diverse as well. My primary goal with the nanodegree is to gain a better understanding of the underlying theories of artificial intelligence and their connection to modern time applications. However, going through possible projects on popular free-lancer sites, I feel the inclination to put a focus on natural language processing, a.k.a. text-to-speech/speech-to-text, text generation, automatic summarization, etc. On the other hand, the specialization that mostly tickles my fantasies is object recognition in computer vision. The first time I got involved in this field was during a project where we developed a self-driving car for a student competition, Carolo Cup, Germany, in 2014. My part of the project included collision-avoidance and finding the optimal path to drive by Hough Transform and Bird's Eye View Transformation using OpenCV on the OpenDaVinci platform.

As for my final thought, my 5 years mission in artificial intelligence is to explore strange new applications areas, to seek out new algorithms and new methodologies and to boldly go where no man has gone before. //forked from Star Trek

